1.

" .. it will be better if you keep your seat belts fastend during the travel.."

Immediately after the announcement, passenger sitting on seat 59A ran towards the washroom.
the Airhostedd gave a sigh of relief when the man headed towards to washroom.

"Sheela, did you think that the man is hijacker?" Jamshed asked laughing but in a low voice.
"We can't say anything in today's world. Take a look at 60A. He looks suspicious"
Jamshed took a look without moving his head. "Should I tell you something Sheel? You are too nervous now a days. You will even doubt the pilots some day! He looks suspicous because he is drunk"

60A was a heavy built european traveller. After the announcement was translated in English he also headed towards the washroom.
Half sleeved unbuttoned shirt and denmin trouser. Any other time people would have noticed his well built physique but at the moment they could only see the effect of alcohol.

Till now "King Vikramaditya" was cruising at an altitude of 30000 feets. Cabin was calm and Water in a glass would not have moved but 60A was not able to walk properly and was losing his balance as he was drunk. With much effort he reached washroom. He tried opening but it remained closd.

"Sir, this washroom is in use. If you need it urgently you can use one of the washrooms downstairs " Jamshed said in soft words.

"Thank you, I will wait here"

Looking at the narrow spiralling staircase going downwards from executive class Jamshed thought 60A's decision was right.
Jamshed felt like giving his seat to 60A. But just then washroom door opened. 59A cames out giving a look of dislike to the fair and heavy built european and sent back to his seat. 60A went to the bathroom.

"Let's go. Time for serviing the snacks" Jamshed advised Shila.

Wehn 60A came out, Jamshed and Shila were busy in arranging the snack tray. So they could not notice the swollen left pocket of 60A's trouser.Due to mess created by 60A they did not notice one more thing. The pouch which 59A carried withi him while going to washroom was not with him when he came out..

The Boeing jet heading towards London landed in New Delhi as per schedule. Seat 59A which was occupied during Mumbai-New Delhi journey was now vacant.
60A was sleeping quitely. There were innocent emotions on his face.


2.

Because of phone ring Arul came out of his trans. For past hanf an hour he was sitting in front of his terminal solving his problems. There was must have been some issue in the program he wrote because computer was not accpeting his programs and throwing "Error" and "Invalid" message making him angry.
In Arul's view computer is an idiot and only does what it is told to do.
He always used to debate with his friends on how much importance people give to a computer. He accepted that computer can do millions of calculations in a second, information saved in its memory or storage can be can be searched and retrieved in a fraction of a second. Many difficult challenges faced by scientists could not have been solved without a computer. Arul hinself was defeated in chess by computer number of times. But what does this prove - according to Arul - computer is a quick and efficient slave. It can only execute the given instructions as per the program fed into it earlier.
It can'do do anything beyond its limited logic was Arul's defence in favour of his argument.
Now take today's instance - the problem was not getting sovled due to a manor mistake because of which Arul was wasting so much time. It must be a minor issue but computer was not able to understand.
And now this phone...
While picking up the received Arul was a bit curious because the time was 7:00 AM. At thsi hour there was pin drop silence in the institute. The telephone operator himself doesn't wake up until 8 am. So this call must be an internal call within institute.
His guess was right. 
"Arul Air, Duty officer Shirke speaking, there is a trunk call for you from Bangalore" Sound came from other side of telephone line.
"Ok, hold it I will be right there".

While elevator was coming down Arul was wondering if this call was from his Father or about his father. His father was 70 plus staying alone at Bangalore. His health condition was bit unpredictable. but he was not ready to leave his house with a garden and come to stay with Arul in his flat on 8th floor.
There were 2 landlines at reception. From 8 pm to 8 am there was no telephone operator in the office. One of the landline receiver was kept aside and Shirke called Arul from other. Arul picked up the receiver.
"Hello...Hello.. This is Arul speaking"
Arul heard the operator's voice from the speaker " Demand call for you Sir, Hello Bangalore, go ahead please?
And operator's clear voice was placed by a very low pitched voice. Arul asked him to speak louder.

"Dr. Arul, Raghavan here". Arul gave a sigh of relief knowing the call was not about his father's health.
Raghavan was project manager at Gauribidnur. This was a huge project on the theory of gravity. Project was at a preliminary stage. Raghavan had called him before as well to discuss about problems in construction but not this early in the day. Later words explained the reason " ..called you because an unexpected thing has happened"
Raghavan was talking and Arul was listening - Shirke was watching his face which cold not hid a surprized look.

"Is Mr. Jagdale there?"
"Sir, may I know your name?"
Arul told his name and address. This was not the first time he was Calling Mantralaya. He used to wonder about this question - as if anser of it depended on who is calling.
But he had very well understood that there is huge difference in logic used in Maths and science and logic used in Matralaya.
so he never used to go to Mantralaya except for some unavoidable reasons.
Today there was that unavoidable reason.

Because of the trunk call in the morning he had to go to Gauribidnur. He had missed the morning flite but he could still take the evening flite. The travel coordinator of the institute went to Indian Airlines office but could not get a seat reserved for evening flite. He got the ticket but seat reservation was in waiting list.
All reserved seats were sold out.  Of course this meant all seats for general public are sold out but seats for public servents - the government quota - were yet available as per his inside information.Ths was the time when his classmate Sachin Jagdale who was working in revenue department was going to be useful.


"Sir is not in office now, he has gone for a meeting" 
This was one of the five reasons he usually used to get.
"When will he be back in office?" He knew the question is useless but still he asked.
"We dont know that but he is going on a tour to Yawatmal at 3 PM"

This was definitely important informatio. Out of two negative options finding Jagdale was better option.
Arul gave his phone number but he knew from his experiences except for execptional circumstances do not answer the letters or do not call back was motto of India administrative services.

So he called repititively at 12, 12:15, 12:30 and was able to speak to Mr. Jagdale.
By makimg some adjustments he gave Arul a VIP seat.
Though Mr. Jagdale was a beuraucrat he was a science graduate and had respect for science. He was also aware of the respect Arul had among the well know scientists.

Even after doing all this taking the tickets from office and get the seat number printed on them was donw 3:30 pm.
After reaching home Arul packed his bags, took some important papers and went to airport.
"Please arrive at airport one hour fifteen minutes prior to departure" was the instruction from airline is only for passengers.Because while entering the terminal at 4:45PM PA system was annoucing " Indian Airlines regret to inform Flite IC100 to Bangalore will be delayed by two hours tirty minutes" 

Experience make man wiser. once upon a time when Arul had complained for the bad service escalating to even the general manager. But unless there is a competition and number of seats are way too less than the travellers this will not change. Word 'regret' in the announcement was only for formality.
And two hours thirty minutes in the announcement meant minimum time for the delay.
Arul always factored this kind of delay in his plans and used to take work related documents with him.
When other passengers had gathered to form a crowd looking for the staff member missing from his desk Arul was work on the papers in a corner chair.

2hours 3 minutes stretched to 4 hours and when Arul's flite landed at Bangalore it was 11:30 PM.

Raghawan was waiting with a Jeep. When the jeep left the Airport premises and turned towards the eastern highway Arul could not hold back his curiosity any further/
"Raghavan, now tell me in detail about your treasure. Tell me from start as I was not able to hear you clearly on telephone." 

Raghavan cleared his throat and started.
"Arul, I called you early in the morning because because there was an unexpected interruption in our escavation last night....you know our project is running behind the schedule and hence digging is going on for twenty hours a day...Last night when we reached at 98 meters and were ready to complete the remaining 4 meters. But after reaching 100m depth we came across a layer of metal. It was so hard that drilling machine was ineffective on it."

Arul whistled softly but didn't speak anything. Raghavan continued,  "This Metal layer was square shaped approximately 3 by 3 meters. Luckily the well which we are digging is large enough so we could dig further leaving the metal surface untouched at the center. Hence I took a decision to go ahead"

"you did the right thing!" Arul said. Raghavan used to get things done with sheer will and no-nonsense approach. Hence he had selected Raghavan as project manager.

"Afterdigging from sides we realized the metal is not natural but an alloy and it was a cubical shaped box."

"Cubical?" Arul wanted to make sure. He had heard the same word over the phone call in the morning.

"Yes right. Cubical All its sides are of same length - approximately 3 meters. Maybe a Mumbai home will fit in it."

"You keep taunting Mumbai but situation at Bangalore is going to be the same Raghavan. Anyways, Did you open the box? you have a crane available to take it out of the well."

Raghavan was quite. He was uable to answer. At last he said "Situation is a bit wierd Arul."

"Wierd? Why?" Arul was surprised.
"The lid is not visible distinctly and there are wierd shapes and letters carved on it."
""In which language are these letters?
"I couldn't identify the langiage. I have read many books in our library, I also asked many other colleagues in Bangalore but no one could identify it." Raghavan said, "An altogether new challenge has surfaced."
"What is that?" Arul felt Gaghavan has come to the main point.
"A technician had seen an english movie in the past and he recalled a scene similar to our situation.
In that move during similar excavation in Egypt they find a box and when they open it an alive mummy comes out of it. He talked about this in tea break and workers are not ready to even look at the box now."

"What  nonsense" Arul was angry.
"I also could have said the same Arul, but..."
"But what?"
"the images on the box..." Raghavan stammered, "everyone find them terrifying."


3.

Immediately after the traffic signal turned geen the car at the first row turned right and speedily disappeard - Cars on opposite side were spellbound by the speed and firing of the car.


"What a car man! and I drive this bullok cart..." a taxi driver exclaime while trying to push the accelerator on his old ambassador.
"It must be owned by a foreigner" said the passenger in the taxi.
"The car is foreign made but the owner is India. Whole Delhi knows this car - he is driving this car for last 5 months on Delhi roads" replied the Punjabi taxi driver cuddling his beard.

The Alfa Romeo card which turned from Aurobindo road to ring road quickly turned towards Vasant vihar colony.
Its owner obviously was proud of his car. From his childhood Navinchandra Pande loved fast cars.
This attaraction converted into ambition as he grew.
Some people think Rolls Royce is best, some like Cadillac and some want to own Mercedez-Benz.
Navin didn't like the luxury cars. In europe he had seen many cars and selected Alpha Romeo and brought it to India paying hefty duties.
When the bright red car arrived in Delhi, it become a gossip subject immediately across Delhi.
Crosing 2 lanes Navin smoothly drove the car through the narrow gate of bungalow and pressed the break pedal.Car stopped with loud noise from breaks. Navin took out a device from glove compartment and pressed left side button on it. The garage shutter rolled up quickly and Navin swiftly parked his red beauty in the garage.

Equipped with latest gadgets, a bungalow in Vasant Vihar, imported car, overseas trips - from all this anyone would imagine that Navin must be a successful industrialist or a famous actor. But fact was different.

Contrary to the meaning of his name Navin was interested in old things. He was an expert officer in archiology department. He had made significant contributions to the archeological archives in India.

He always stressed on use of latest technology even if his area of interest was in archeology that dealt in age old items.
He had learnt new techniques required for arheology and he was world renowned as best expert in Indian archeology.
But then what was the secret of opulance in his life? If he had been married we could point it towards his rich father-in-law. Although there were so many ladies around him he did not get married.
He had shown his wealth as inheritence to income tax department and had made arrangements to make sure they will not probe much into it.


"Hey Ramsekvak, any important news?" Navin asked while sinking into his favourite chair.
As usual Ramsevak brought in a tray with Navin's favourite Scotch on the rocks on it.

"Sir, Runadevi had called. She has invited you for dinner tonight. Hence I have not cooked anything for dinner tonight. And someone's servent has given letter for you." Ramsevak pointed to the letter in the tray. 
Ramsevak knew nowadays Runa is closer to his master. He did not miss a smile flashed on Navin's face on hearing her name.

"Ok Ramsevak, take a holiday today, watch a film"
Navin knew Ramsevak was a bollywood fan and loved to watch any and every bollywood movie.

"Ok Sir" After Runa's call Ramsevak had already called his friend and had arranged tickets, but didn't feel like telling this to Navin.

After Ramsevak went out Navin picked up the envelope on the tray. There was no sender's name on it but by looking at the monogram on it Navin's mood changed and his face fainted.
Unwillingly he opened the envelope and glanced at the letter inside. It had only 2 lines.

It has been months that we didn't meet.
Can you meet me at Shesh mahal at 8 pm?


There was no signature or sender's name but Navin didn't need it. He knew who that was.

Giving out a sigh he picked up the phone receiver and dialed a number.
"Runa darling...Navin here. Yes, I got the message..but not possible today...I can't do anything....Runa, dont misunderstand me...Runa...Runa..."

There was no point in speaking on a disconnected line. Navin looked at his watch. It was 7:30. He kept the scotch glass down and stood up.

It was exactly 8 pm when he parked his Alpha Romeo in Hotel Akbar's parking and then entered through the newly decorated main door.

There was hardly any crowd in the hotel. So when he glanced inside the restaurent he found the expected man quite easily.

"Welcome Navin bro! no one can beat you in punctuality...so whats the plan today? Drink dinner and discussion?" asked the man in a blue safari suit.

"Let's eat, talk and then drink" Navin replied. He had experienced in past after talking to Pyarelal he often lost the appetite.

Both were too hungry so Navin ordered the dinner. Pyarelal gave a jealous look at Navin as he somehow was eating so called 'healthy' food allowed in his diet plan.

Post dinner to move agenda forward Navin asked "How's your electronics business going?"
"Well.." Pyarelal said "going on as usual"
Just then waiter came with coffee tray. When he was gone there was silence for few moment.
Then Pyarelal said "How about yours. I ask everyone I meet whats new on their side but for you I need to ask opposite - what old things you found recently."
"Nothing Special", Navin said.
"But I need it, There is too much demand. you will get lot of commission. Dont you need AC for your red toy?"

Secret of Pyarelal's success was he knew about Navin's interests very well.

"Nowadays government is keeping strict watch. I have a doubt that somoene is watching me. I doubt after the Vikramaditya incident someone is keeping a watch on me. I felt it when I landed the Delhi internation Airport."

"Nonsense" Pyarelal responded, "you are getting suspicious for no reasone/ There are many customers with lot of money. If I dont provide them with goods they will hire another broker. I read many things were found in the excavation in Madhya Pradesh. If the catalogging is not completed, then...."
"I will try. But I think there is not much value of things from Gupta dynasty"
"You dont think about value and demand, thats my department not yours. you only take care of the supply... see This.." Pyarelal showed a paper.
Their discussion continued for half an hour.
"OK Then, talk is over so shold we order some drinks?"
"No! I have to drive.." Navin said goodbye and walked out of the restaurent.
Pyarelal was surprised. Navin had never avoided drinks. First time a doubt came in his mind on how long Navin would be useful for his "side-business"



4.

"Raghavan, this situation is out of our control", said Arul.
It was 3:30 in the night. Arul and Raghavan climbed down usin the rope ladder and were standing next to the box.
Flood lights were installed to make sure escavation will continue even during night time. Now there was no work ongoing but to keep a watch on the box floodlights were on.

"I am not archeologists and neither you are." Arul Said, "What we see here is age old. We dont know the the script. Look at the wasy this iron alloy is also clean and shining after so many years."

"So many means how many years?" asked Raghavan.
Actually he wanted to ask one more question but he had a doubt if it was appropriate to ask it straight. So to get the answer he tried to turn the conversation towards that topic slowly.

"that I dont know, but I thought this way: This metal alloy is not created after our industrial revolution but the way it is built gives an impression that whoever built the alloy and the box were havig very sofisticated manufacturing technology. Look at the way its external surface is - so smooth. We can't even find its lid. What do you think?" Arul asked.

"What will I say dude? I am out of my mind" Raghavan said.

Arul laughed and said, "This civilization is not from recent two-three thousand years. This is very ancient. Its chain of evolution has broken and even its traces are no longer left - except this box. What could be there in it?"

The last question was not for Raghavan, but for himself. While talking Arul was examining the box closely. Raghavn thought in previous century Sherlock Holmes would have examined the box in the same way (Raghavan was a fan of Sherlock holmes stories) 

"and these are your so called monsters" Arul said laughing. Raghavan was thinking if he was going to get answers for his question which made him restless.
Arul said, "These dont look like human beings, they appear to be robots"

"But aren't they terrifying?"

Arul neither made a fun of Raghan's quesion nor he got angry with him.
After looking at the images for some time he said in a serious tone, "I agree with you. I think the artists didn't want to draw a good picture of robots. In reality there are no expresstions on robot's face. Mechanical things do not have emotions. But in these images expressions on robot's face are not sublime"

Due to some unknown fear Raghavan shivered. For no reason he glanced around.
The place Arul selected for their experiment was far away from the human settlements. 
Because experiment demanded keeping the equipments under the surface of earth to measure infinitesimal effects of gravity away from any disturbances. Naturally, the area was quiet.

But now raghavan had a fear of this very quiteness. what would happen if those robots come out of the box? We are alone n thie pit without any weapons. There are 4 security guards on night duty but they are 100m above. They are there or not doesn't matter at this depth. his eyes turned towards the rope ladder just then Arul answered his question that was lingering in his mind.

"I dont thin there will be any robots inside the box" Arul said while going towards the rope ladder. "The box could be a time capsule containing some information about that civilization. Now we need to get expert technicians to open this box..need to inform the archeology department and also the red tape bearaucrats in Delhi...My project will be delayed again"

Arul feared of this being one more blocker in the series of blockers so far in his project.

Just when Arul was about to put his foot on teh ladder, he noticed a board kept against a wall. Approximately 1m engthe and 0.5m wide. There were letters on the board - Red colour large size in the center and black colour small letters at the sides.

Raghavan was already restless, " There must be no no relation between the board and the box because we found it in last week only at 5m depth. I should have told you about that but you had just came from abroad and I thought you must be very busy so I didn't call you."

"Where was it then these many days?"
"I had kept it in my office. Today you were coming so I bought it here"

"Does this board have any relationship with the box?" Arul murmered to himself. "Its script looks similar but why the box was so deep and and board was quite at shallow depth? We need to examine the board when we are trying to solve the puzzle of the box"

He picked up the board and starting climbing the rope ladder.

Raghavan started to climb first because he didn't want to wait in that terrifying place. He didn't look back but he felt that the daemon like pictures were giving a wierd laugh at athem.



Arun woke up becaus somoene was continuously knocking the door. Sometimes when we wake u from deep sleep we can't recall where we are and get confused. After few moments Arul understood he is in the Indian Institute of sciences guest house. When he looked at his wrist watch it was showing 10:22 AM.

"Come in"

The door opened and chief bearer Vikram came in without making any sound as if he came floating in the air.
Vkram's bevavior always reminded Arul of Jeeves. Arul was a fan of P.G. Wodhouse especially the character of Jeeves.

"You asked me not to wake you up but I had no option. The press is waiting for you outside."
Press reporters generally dpn't visit the guest house. He was not happy with the crowd at the same time he had some curiosity about their arrival.

Arul was about to ask Vikram to let reporters sit in the lounge but just then Vikram continued" Sir, I made an arrangement for them in the lounge and told them that you will be ready in 15 minutes."

"Good", he doesn' need any instructions but still Arul asked "Vikram I need to make a trunk call"
"STD or demand call sir?"
"Demand call. you know I have the permissions. Taket this number"

Arul ad asked for direct line to the Director of the institute. Before facing the press he wanted an advice from the Dr. Kirtikar. He had to buy some time until he speaks to him.

Arul got fresh, put on his clothes and went downstairs in the lounge. There were 7 reporters in the lounge.

"Oh Mukund! Whats brings you here? All stories in Mumbai over?"
Mukund was a reporter in the times of India, Mumbai.
He said "Yesterday your news came to Mumbai at night so I took the morning flite to see what's going on"

"My News?" Arul asked surprisingly. "Which news?"

"Dont be so naive. Read this part of teleprinter output" Mujund took out a chit from his pocket. Other reporters were also nodding.

....An ancient box with arheological importance was found in Gauribidnur during excavation for an experiment lead by Mubai based  Dr. Arul

"I have told this news to Bangalore UNI " said Ganeshan - the reporter of UNI.

"Look at the headline of our newspaper" Deccan Herald reporter showed hin the front page of their newspaper.
Headline read - "Ancient civilizations' time capsule?"

Other reporters also showed their newspaper with similar headlines.

"ow did you get the news" Arul decided to ask questions. Attack is the best defence!

"A worker at your site was saying this at a tea stall. Our local reporter picked it up"

"And blown it out of proportion. Was that worker in tea stall or country liquor shop?"

Laughter erupted in the room. But Kumarswami of "Deccan Herald" was not ready to divert from the point. He said " I myself have visited your site. I met Mr. Raghavan there. He has kept strong security there and is letting no one in."

"What did Raghavan say?"
"He refused to talk."
Arul was relieved. 
But of course Kumarswami was not satisfied. "Without any special reason Raghavan will not keep such a high security. So you please satisfy our curiosity"

"See friends, I am not ina state of mind to say anything at this moment. I need to talk to the director of my institute before commenting anything. I have asked the operator to connect me to him."
Just then, Vikram arrived at the door "Sir, your call to Mumbai is connected"

"Ok! Please arrange for tea and coffee for these gentlemen in the meanwhile"

"I have already arranged it sir" Vikram pushed the trolly from the door and came in.




5.

"Director was to meet you urgently"
There was a single word "URGENT" printed on a small chit under which above handwritten message was.
Navin identified his secretary's handwriting.
He went back the same way he came. Director's cabin was at the end of verhanda. Before entering the Director's cabin one had to pass through his PA's office.

"Sir is speaking on phone but you can go in"

But Navin lingered there for a moment. He wanted some information.

"Shankar, anything special today? Do you know why the boss has called me urgently today?"
He used to get lot of informal information from Shankar.

"Just 10 minutes back Pro. Firtikar from Mumbai had called him He talked for 5 minutes and then sent for you."
Navin knew from experience Shankar's 10 minutes and 5 minues are never to be taken literally.

"Kirtikar? Who is prof. Kirtikar?"
"Head of fundamental science institute"
Now Navin could connect the dots. He had read a small news in  Hindustan Times about finding of a box in excavation of this institute's experiment
He went inside the room. Director was speaking on the phone.
"Ok Mr. Harisharan, please convey the PM that we are taking the action immediately"

The director hung up the phone, looked at Navin and smiled.
Navin had become curious about the last line the director spoke but did not show on his ace.

"Navin, see how funny is this! You must have read the news about the box found at Gauribidnur. Bth PTI and UNI were querying about it last night. Anyways I couldn't talk about it. But after that I had called Dr. Kirtikar from the Fundamental science institute. He also didn't have any information. But their scientist Dr. Arul had gone to Gauribidnur. He was hoping to get more information from Dr. Arul today."
Navin was listening quietly but could not understand why director called this 'funny'

"But the summary that I got yesterday, I am pretty sure this matter is not simple and I knew that this is coming our way. So to save some time I called Mr.Harisharan."

Mr. Harisharan was secretary in education and culture ministry. Navin knew this man very well.

"I told this news to him and discussed possibility of sending our people to Gauribidnur." Director said, "But Mr. Harisharan has taken a conscious approach. This is month of January and bueget provisions for this financial year are almost getting overs. Hence he mentioned we should not be taking up any new project"

"Rubbish! Where does this bidge constrain go when he wants to make domestic and overseas tours?"
"Yes, we know that. But when he started talking about planned, non-planned expenditure and financial situation I got frustrated."

This was not something unexpected to Navin. Except some noble exception - he had veru high respects or them - Navin's opinion about Indian administration was not so good. He often used to get invited to Lal Bahadur Shastri academy in Masoorie where IAS officers used to get their initial tranings. He used to go there at times to conduct lectures in his subject. 
Looking at the young and bright officers in the academy he usually felt - very soon all these good qualities in these young officers would be suppressed and they will soon become part of bureaucracy. Unfortunaltely Harisharan was not that noble exception. He remembered Probir Ganguly - Harisharan's predecessor - who was knowledeable, well mannerd and big hearted. But unfortunately he was transferred from ministry of education and culture to Home ministry and he was succeeded by Harisharan.

"So what was he saying now?" Navin Asked.
Director Laughed and said, "The magic wand effect! In the morning a call came from the PM office. PM read he news and his sharp mind understood that this is extraordinary matter. He expressed his desire to solve this mystery. Now the cultural ministry has woken up and Harisharan is chasing me to send our people to go to Gauribidnur!!"

"So, what are we going to do now?"

"I am deciding on that Navin. But tell me what is your opinion about this news?"

"I initially thought this to be some practical joke."

"Practical joke?? which joker can possibly keep a 3m long box 100 m deep?", Director said.

"I agree this is impossible. But an ancient civilization keeping a box made out of some mytery alloy buried so deep and it is found during an excavation - I found it a bit too much. But we need to perform our duty of inspecting it. I will go to Bangalore tomorrow", Navin said.

"Not tomorrow, go today itself. Take the afternoon flite. Take whatever support staff you need and..." Dairector took a pause looking at Navin's face. What he wanted to add must have been something Navin would frown about.
"And what?"
"On the way, Laxmanan will join you in Hyderabad. I have sending him a telex message now."
As Director expected, Nain was not happy.

"Why we need Laxmanan here?", he asked.
"I have a theory. If the box is really ancient then it may have infromation in code words. you will agree, no one can match Laxmanan in this area."

Director rang a bell and his assistant Shankar came in. Director dictated message for Laxmanan and aked to telex it right away.
At this time Navin was wathing sceneary fromt eh window.There was no point in arguing with the director. But he did not like Laxmanan taking part in the project. It is essential to know somethig about the people who created the coded message to decode the same. Their culture,  thought process and experiences are very useful for code breakers. But here, the situation is different. Thousands of years of old civilization, their traditons, their way of gathering the information - everything was unknown, what was a professional code breaker like Laxmanan can do?

But that was not the real problem.Navin wanted everything in this project under his leadership, but it was well known that Laxmanan always does what he wants and everyone would tolerate his behaviour considering his immense talent.

After sorting out the telex Director convinced Navin, " This project is under your leadership. You must have heard I have given instructions to Laxmanan accordingly."

"I was in dep thoughts when you were dictating Telex. SO I didn't hear what you said. I know my responsibilities but wanted to ask a question...Where should we keep the box after removing it? Will we get any help from Dr. Arul and his team?", Navin Asked.

"Dont worry about that because Dr.Kirtikar had assured me of full support. I had a detailed discussion with him on phone today morning. There is a workshop ready on the site. Lab building is also built but not in use. WE can use some of the rooms and conference halls" Director said.

"And what about computers? Laxmanan will need it."
"Fortunately a new model of VAX is ordered and it will be installed on the site in next week. Dr. Kirtikar has permitted us to use it. But there is expectation from us."

"What?"

"There must be participation of their institute in this project. He has appointed Dr. Arul from the institute side. I don't see any problem with that."

Navin nodded. This means it was going to be triangle of himself, Lamanan and Arul on this project.

The discussions went on for an hour. After the discussion with the director he was going to his cabin when his secretary cought hold of him.

"What's up Rajan, anything special?"

"When you went to mee the directory a call had come. The person on the line did not tell his name but asked you to call back urgently. I have left the number on your desk."

Thanking the secretary he went to his cabin. He was not happy looing at the number.
He could making outgoing calls but there was no direct line in his cabin. Navin looked at the watch. It was time for lunch and he had Bangalore flite to catch.
Though he had lost the appetite looking at the number on teh desk, he went to an expensive restaurent on Janpath. There was a public phone booth there.He went inside, inserted a coin and dialled a number.

"Pyarelal, why did you call me at my office? We had agreed you will never call my office number"

"Navin, bro forgive me" Pyarelal said in a tone faking respect "I broke the agreement because this is something urgent and I didn't fnd you at your home.

"Why did you call?" NAvin asked him , but he was pretty sure what it would be. Pyarelal's network was more efficient than that of newspapers.

"Its about the box that they found near Bangalore..." 
"That one? I think it is some kind of joke"
"But your department must be checking it. If they found anything special, dont forget me." Pyarelal hung up the phone without waiting for an answer.

Navin knew from his eperiences "Dont forget me" means if you do then consequences would be terrible.
He kept the receiver down and wiped out the sweat on palm.


Pyarelal had 6 wall clocks on his wall. They were labelled as - Tokyo, Singapore, Rome, London, New York and Los Angles. Pyarelal was lookig at the 4th clock. It was showing 8 AM.

By usng ISD facility he dialled a London number. ISD was very useful for his business. No disturbance from operator. And all his deals were verbal so no problems with paperwork.
Still he had to dial 5 times to get the London number. Phone kept ringing for quite some time on other side before it was answered by a sleepy irritated voice "Hello, who is this?"
Pyarelal expected this sleepy voice. without a surprise he said, "P.L."
Hearing it irritation from London's voice was gone "What's new?"
"Will not tell you on the phone. But if you turn on radio or TV you will come across a news item related to India. Listen to it carefully, we will earn a fortune out of it. I have already taken steps in that direction.Hope you will do what is required.Call me after 10 hours."
Without waiting for answer he disconnected the phone.
On the other side 'London' picked up the remote control and pressed power button on it. The TV on the shelf turned on. Breakfast TV shows were playing on the TV.
There was a strike going on in Ford motor company and shop steward, managers, Union secretary were getting interviewed...On the other channel a lday dog trainer's interview was broadcasted.
'London'  kept on channel surfing. At last news started at 8:30 again. 
After Strike in ford, collapsing ppund, summit meeting related news, there was last news : " A large box has been found during excavation near Bangalore in India and Archeology department is checking it"
The news was too short. Post that the anchor moved on to soccer matches.
'London' got what he wanted. He switched of the TV and stepped out of the bed. He had to do many things in 10 hours.



6.










 











